are you launching a new website or
redesigning one soon i'm gonna share
eight mush checks before you go live
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
if you haven't yet check out our weekly
email where we share actionable
marketing tips useful podcasts free
guides bonus resources and much much
more every monday to start your week off
with a bang sign up over at business
growth dot email so tip number one is
going to be page speed so you can use a
tool called google page speed insights
where you literally just copy and paste
your website url it will run a test of
your mobile and your desktop page speed
tell you how quick it is any areas that
are perhaps slow and what you need to
change to improve the speed so there's
nothing worse than when you're trying to
look for a product or service perhaps
you find them on google perhaps you
click add and the website takes ages to
load it's going to frustrate your
visitors it's actually going to harm
your brand reputation and worst of all
it's going to harm your conversion rate
because if the site loads slowly it's
really going to annoy people they're
probably going to click away to a
competitor and you lose the chance of
ever winning their business and make
sure you get your speed sorted out nice
and quickly aim for one second or as
close to one set load speed on mobile
and desktop as you can tip two is
checking your inquiry forms so no one
wants to miss a fresh inbound sales lead
from their website so what you need to
do is test every form demo request
consultation request form that you've
got on your website put in some dummy
details and make sure that that form
links up to the correct email address so
anytime someone makes an inquiry on your
website you're going to get that lead
through straight away and likewise if
you perhaps use calendar tools like
canon lee or chili piper or similar on
your website test those out make sure
they root through to the correct sales
rep straight away so you don't miss out
on any fresh juicy leads tip three is
checking your website works smoothly
across mobile across pc and across
tablet so there's a little hack on
google chrome you can press f12 and
it'll actually enable you to toggle
between different mobile devices
different tablet views and various other
options so you can see what your website
performs like on those views basic
things like making sure your menu is
stuck to the top when people scroll down
so everything looks great so you don't
have to zoom in scroll around so there's
not issues so all navigation all banner
areas all buttons are nice and clickable
and work smoothly across mobile tablet
and pc making sure there's no issues we
actually use at webchoiceuk.com we use a
tool called browser stack so that lets
you test different environments
different mobile devices different
softwares different screen sizes across
apple across safari across google chrome
so you can make sure your website looks
great performs great has no usability
errors because the last thing you want
is investing in marketing driving
traffic to your site but that being an
issue on someone's device so you lose
the chance to gain their business next
up is call to actions so making sure the
main buttons numbers emails on your site
all click through and go to the right
place so perhaps your main call to
action is request a tailored demo or
maybe it's book a consultation call or
maybe even it's by now so making sure
those buttons link through to the
relevant contact form or link through to
the purchase process or if you've got
numbers that click through when you
click those on mobile that they click
through and make sure they dial the
right place so ensuring that whenever
someone's ready to speak to sales that
those call to action buttons on all your
main pages are working smoothly so you
don't miss out on any opportunities tip
number five is an ssl certificate
what's an ssl well when you search for a
website when you bring up the website
address in your browser
you'll see a padlock and you'll see a
https
colon slash
that basically means the website's got a
layer of encrypted security from that
ssl certificate you can install one
usually your hosting provider will offer
you one or your web provider will be
able to help you out with it it's
typically quite cheap and easy to
install and set up the reason you want
it is because it helps build confidence
when people see that padlock on your
site address and also if your website is
not secure google's actually going to
flag it it's a down ranking factor so
google will flag your site as unsecure
so people might not even be able to
access or get into your website so make
sure you've got that set up next up is
google analytics google analytics is an
awesome tool that allows you to get all
kind of insights on your website around
how much traffic you get how many
visitors you get per day where the
traffic's coming from so the location
sources
how people are finding you whether it's
google organic search like seo whether
it's paid ads whether it's social email
directly coming to your site or any
other channels
you can track your conversions so you
can link up google analytics to all your
inquiry forms to purchases to when
someone clicks a phone number when they
press a call to action so you can track
all your goal conversions or your leads
you can also track how long people are
staying on the site how many people are
bouncing off when they go onto the home
page and not visit another page how long
people spend on each pages all these key
insights that make you understand how
well your website's performing the
current stats and perhaps any areas for
improvement the good thing about it is
it's free to set up an account on google
analytics you can set it up nice and
easily and then just get your developer
to install a piece of code on your site
and then you're good to rock and roll at
number seven we have seo so this is
really important if you're doing a site
redesign or rebuild or shifting to a new
platform making sure you consider things
like content so if you've got certain
pages that are ranking well making sure
you carefully transfer that content
across because those pages might have
been on page one now and then perhaps if
you mix match change all the copy that
could cause ranking issues and need to
go down downwards in google's algorithm
otherwise making sure you carefully
transfer across things like the metadata
so meta titles and descriptions what
shows in your google listings
any alt tags on images any structure of
your navigation of your page silos and
all that good stuff and making sure you
keep the framework the content and the
technical build as close as you can to
the existing site that's got that google
ranking so you don't cause negative
effects when you do make the new site
live and the final tip is hosting so
this is not a part to scrimp and save
especially if you're planning on
marketing your site perhaps you're going
to drive people to your site and do
organic seo maybe you're going to do
some paid ads some google adwords
perhaps some social advertisement maybe
you're going to do some organic social
and drive people there from linkedin or
facebook perhaps you're going to do some
email campaigns as well so the last
thing you want to do is send a load of
traffic a load of people to your site
and then it crashes because it can't
withstand the traffic perhaps it doesn't
have the bandwidth the memory or
something else
so make sure you get a solid hosting
platform in place that's going to be
able to
cope with all the traffic so speak to
your hosting your web team about that
and what you're planning to on the
marketing front so they can advise
and then also make sure that you're set
up to at least take one backup a day of
your website so if there ever are issues
you've got a backup that can kick into
place if the site ever goes down or has
an issue or glitch and there you have it
i hope these eight tips have been of use
to you before you launch a new or
redesign a website and go live with it
as always if you've found today's
episode of use a quick rating on your
podcast channel or subscribe on youtube
is very very much appreciated and with
that i shall catch you on the next one
cheers